>1024 Byte Packets Transmitted 
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted that are greater than 1024 bytes in length, including CRC. If Jumbo Frames are enabled, this
    counter also reflects Jumbo Frames (over 1522 bytes). This counter does not include transmitted flow control packets.

    >1024 Byte Packets Received 
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received that are greater than 1024 bytes in length, including CRC. If Jumbo Frames are enabled, this
    counter also reflects Jumbo Frames (over 1522 bytes). Packets counted in the Missed Packet Count are not counted here. This counter does not include
    received flow control packets. 

    1024-1522 Byte Packets Received
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received that are 1024-1522 bytes in length, including CRC. Packets counted in the Missed Packet
    Count are not counted here. This counter does not include received flow control packets. NOTE: If Jumbo Frames are enabled, this counter also reflects
    Jumbo Frames (over 1522 bytes). 

    1024-1522 Byte Packets Transmitted
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted that are 1024-1522 bytes in length, including CRC. This counter does not include received
    flow control packets. NOTE: If Jumbo Frames are enabled, this counter also reflects Jumbo Frames (over 1522 bytes).  

    128-255 Byte Packets Received
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received that are 128-255 bytes in length, including CRC. Packets counted in the Missed Packet Count
    are not counted here. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    128-255 Byte Packets Transmitted
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted that are 128-255 bytes in length, including CRC. This counter does not include received flow
    control packets.   

    256-511 Byte Packets Received
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received that are 256-511 bytes in length, including CRC. Packets counted in the Missed Packet Count
    are not counted here. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    256-511 Byte Packets Transmitted
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted that are 256-511 bytes in length, including CRC. This counter does not include received flow
    control packets.   

    512-1023 Byte Packets Received
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received that are 512-1023 bytes in length, including CRC. Packets counted in the Missed Packet Count
    are not counted here. This counter does not include received flow control packets. 

    512-1023 Byte Packets Transmitted
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted that are 512-1023 bytes in length, including CRC. This counter does not include received
    flow control packets.   

    64 Byte Packets Received
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received that are exactly 64 bytes in length, including CRC. Packets counted in the Missed Packet Count
    are not counted here. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    64 Byte Packets Transmitted
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted that are exactly 64 bytes in length, including CRC. This counter does not include transmitted
    flow control packets.   

    65-127 Byte Packets Received
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received that are 65-127 bytes in length, including CRC. Packets counted in the Missed Packet Count
    are not counted here. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    65-127 Byte Packets Transmitted
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted that are 65-127 bytes in length, including CRC. This counter does not include received flow
    control packets.   

    Alignment Errors
    Counts the number of receive packets with alignment errors ( i.e. the packet is not an integer number of bytes in length). In order for a packet to be counted
    in this register, it must pass address filtering and must be 64 bytes or greater (from <Destination Address> through <CRC>, inclusively) in length. If receives
    are not enabled, then this register will not increment. This register is valid only in MII mode during 10/100 Mb/s operation. 

    Broadcast Packets Received Count
    This statistic describes the number of good broadcast packets received.   

    Broadcast Packets Transmitted Count
    This statistic describes the number of good broadcast packets transmitted.  

    Bus Clock Rate (Mhz)
        PCI options: 33, 66
        PCI-X options: 66, 100, 133
    Indicates the adapter's bus speed.  

    Current IFS Value 
    This statistic displays the current IFS value.   

    Duplex Mode 
        1=Half, 2=Full
    This statistic describes the current link duplex configuration.  A one indicates the adapter is configured to half duplex mode, and a two indicates full duplex
    mode configuration.  (These values were chosen to match the usage of the FORCEDUPLEX keyword.)  This statistic exists in rev 1.12 or higher of the
    NetWare server driver. 

    Flow Control Mode
        1=Rx, 2=Tx, 3=both
    Indicates which flow control mode is being used by the adapter.  

    Flow Control Received Unsupported Count  
    This statistic describes the number of unsupported flow control frames that are received. This counter will increment when a flow control packet is received
    which does not match the adapter definition of a flow control packet. This counter is not expected to increment.   

    Good Octets Received Count HI
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Good Octets Received Count LO, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the number of good octets received. This
    statistic reflects the upper 32 bits of the 64-bit counter and is incremented each time the Good Octets Received Count LO has reached it maximum value and
    wraps to zero. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    Good Octets Received Count LO
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Good Octets Received Count HI, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the number of good octets received. This
    statistic reflects the lower 32 bits of the 64-bit count. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    Good Octets Transmitted Count HI
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Good Octets Transmitted Count LO, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the number of good octets received. This
    statistic reflects the upper 32 bits of the 64-bit counter and is incremented each time the Good Octets Transmitted Count LO has reached it maximum value
    and wraps to zero. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    Good Octets Transmitted Count LO
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Good Octets Transmitted Count HI, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the number of good octets received. This
    statistic reflects the lower 32 bits of the 64-bit count. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    Good Packets Received Count (Any Length)
    This statistic describes the number of good packets received of any legal length. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    Good Packets Transmitted Count (Any Length)
    This statistic describes the number of good packets transmitted of any legal length. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    Line Speed (Mbps)
    Displays the current line speed in Mbps.  

    Multicast Packets Received Count
    This statistic describes the number of good multicast packets received. This counter does not include received flow control packets.   

    Multicast Packets Transmitted Count
    This statistic describes the number of good multicast packets transmitted. This counter does not include transmitted flow control packets  

    Network Link Status 
        0=Up, 1=Down
    This statistic describes the current link status of the adapter.  A zero indicates the link is up and a one indicates that link is down.  This statistic exists in rev
    1.12 or higher of the NetWare server driver. 

    PCI-X Mode
        0=PCI 2.2, 1=PCI-X
    Indicates which type of slot the adapter is inserted.  

    Receive Fragment Count
    This statistic describes the number of received packets that were less than minimum size (64 bytes) but had a bad CRC.   

    Receive Jabber Count
    This statistic describes the number of received packets that were greater than maximum size (1522 bytes) but had a bad CRC.   

    Receive No Buffers Count
    This statistic describes the number of times that packets were received when there were no available buffers in host memory to store those packets. The
    packet will still be received if there is space in the hardware FIFO. This counter does not include received flow control packets. Increasing Rx Descriptors
    on the command line during load could result in this counter incrementing less frequently.   

    Receive Oversize Count
    This statistic describes the number of received packets that were greater than maximum size (1522 bytes) and had a valid CRC.   

    Receive Undersize Count
    This statistic describes the number of received packets that were less than minimum size (64 bytes) and had a valid CRC.   

    Rx Carrier Extension Errors
    This statistic counts the number of packets received in which the carrier extension error was signaled across the GMII interface.  The PHY propagates
    carrier extension errors to the MAC when an error is detected during the carrier extended time of a packet reception. This statistic will only increment if
    receives are enabled and the device is operating at 1000Mb/s. 

    Rx Checksum Error Pkts 
    This statistic describes the number of receive packets with bad checksums calculated.  The hardware still calculates checksums even when XSUMRX is not
    specified, so this will increment whenever IP is used. 

    Rx Checksum Good Pkts 
    This statistic describes the number of receive packets with good checksums calculated.  The hardware still calculates checksums even when XSUMRX is not
    specified, so this will increment whenever IP is used. 

    Rx CRC Error Count
    This statistic describes the number of receive packets with CRC errors. Packets less than 64 bytes are not counted in this statistic.  

    Rx DMA Too Early 
    This statistic counts the total number of times that the device attempted to perform an Early DMA operation (by speculatively requesting the host bus prior to
    reception of the entire packet), and ran out of data to DMA before the device was forced to relinquish ownership of the bus. This condition is really not an
    ÅgerrorÅh condition, but is nevertheless counted for diagnostic purposes. This statistic is invalid unless Early Receives are enabled. 

    Rx Length Error Count 
    This statistic describes receive length error events.  A length error occurs if an incoming packet is undersized (less than 64 bytes) or oversized (greater than
    1522 bytes, excluding Jumbo Frames, if enabled). 

    Rx Missed Packets Count
    This statistic describes the number of missed packets. Packets are missed when the hardware receive FIFO has insufficient space to store the incoming
    packet. This could be caused because of too few buffers allocated, or because there is insufficient bandwidth on the IO bus. These packets will also be
    counted in the Total Packets Received counter as well as in Total Octets Received.   

    Rx Sequence Error Count
    This statistic describes receive sequence error events. This statistic will increment along with the Rx Symbol Error Count when the fiber cable is either
    disconnected or the connector is not seated completely.   

    Rx Symbol Error Count
    This statistic describes the number of symbol errors between reads.  The count increases for every bad symbol received, whether or not a packet is currently
    being received and whether or not the link is up.  This statistic will increment along with the Rx Sequence Error Count when the fiber cable is either
    disconnected or the connector is not seated completely.  Also, during driver load, this statistic will increment minimally. 

    Slot Width (bit)
        (32 or 64 bits)
    Lists the width of the PCI bus.  

    Total Octets Received HI
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Total Octets Received LO, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the total number of octets received. This statistic
    reflects the upper 32 bits of the 64-bit counter and is incremented each time the Total Octets Received LO has reached it maximum value and wraps to
    zero.   

    Total Octets Received LO
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Total Octets Received HI, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the total number of octets received. This statistic
    reflects the lower 32 bits of the 64-bit count.   

    Total Octets Transmitted HI
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Total Octets Transmitted LO, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the total number of octets received. This statistic
    reflects the upper 32 bits of the 64-bit counter and is incremented each time the Total Octets Transmitted LO has reached it maximum value and wraps to
    zero.   

    Total Octets Transmitted LO
    This statistic, in conjunction with the Total Octets Transmitted HI, makes up a 64-bit counter that describes the total number of octets transmitted. This
    statistic reflects the lower 32 bits of the 64-bit count.   

    Total Packets Received
    This statistic describes the total number of packets received. All packets are counted here, regardless of their length, whether they are erred, or whether they
    are flow control packets.   

    Total Packets Transmitted
    This statistic describes the total number of packets transmitted. All packets transmitted will be counted here, regardless of their length, or whether they are
    flow control packets.   

    Tx Defer Count
    This statistic describes transmit defer events. A defer event occurs when the transmitter cannot immediately send a packet due to the medium being busy
    either because another device is transmitting or the link is not up.   

    Tx DMA Underruns 
    This statistic counts the total number of transmit underruns seen by the transmitter. An underrun occurs when the device starts transmission of data before all
    of the data is DMAÅfd to the packet buffer and the transmission process runs out of on-chip data before reaching the end of the packet.  This may occur
    when the wire is much faster than the host interface and the Early Transmit Threshold is set too low.  This statistic is invalid unless Early Transmits are
    enabled. 

    Tx Excessive Collisions Count
    This statistic describes when 16 or more collisions have occurred on a packet. This counter increments only if the device is in half-duplex mode.   

    Tx Late Collisions Count
    This statistic describes collisions that occur after 64 bytes times. This counter increments only if the device is in half-duplex mode.   

    Tx Multiple Collision
    This statistic describes the number of times that a transmitted packet encountered more than one collision but less than 16. This counter increments only if the
    device is in half-duplex mode.   

    Tx Single Collision Count
    This statistic describes the number of times that a transmitted packet encountered a single collision. This counter increments only if the device is in half-duplex
    mode.   

    Tx Threshold 
    Displays the current value of the Early Transmit Threshold.  The adapter will start transmitting the packet when the specified number of quad-words has been
    DMAed in from memory. 

    Tx TOTAL Collision
    This statistic describes the total number of collisions seen by the transmitter. This counter increments only if the device is in half-duplex mode.   

    Tx with No CRS 
    This statistic counts the number of successful packet transmission in which the Carrier Sense input from the PHY was not asserted within one slot time of start
    of transmission. 

    The PHY should assert Carrier Sense during every transmission.  Failure to do so may indicate that the link has failed, or the PHY has an incorrect link
    configuration.  This statistic is not valid in TBI mode, and is only valid when the device is operating at full duplex. 

    XOFF Received Count
    This statistic describes the number of XOFF packets received. XOFF packets can occur when Flow Control is enabled and both the adapter and its link
    partner are configured to use it.   

    XOFF Transmitted Count
    This statistic describes the number of XOFF packets transmitted. XOFF packets can occur when Flow Control is enabled and both the adapter and its link
    partner are configured to use it.   

    XON Received Count
    This statistic describes the number of XON packets received. XON packets can occur when Flow Control is enabled and both the adapter and its link
    partner are configured to use it.   

    XON Transmitted Count
    This statistic describes the number of XON packets transmitted. XON packets can occur when Flow Control is enabled and both the adapter and its link
    partner are configured to use it. 