-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MakeModes manual
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date:   22-Aug-1994
Issue:  1.00
Author: Dean Murphy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright © 1994 Acorn Computers Limited 


Every effort has been made to ensure that the information in this document is
true and correct at the time of printing. However, the products described in
this leaflet are subject to continuous development and improvements and Acorn
Computers Limited reserves the right to change its specifications at any
time. Acorn Computers Limited cannot accept liability for any loss or damage
arising from the use of any information or particulars in this leaflet.
ACORN, ECONET and ARCHIMEDES are trademarks of Acorn Computers Limited.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction

MakeModes is a tool used to generate and edit Risc PC monitor definition
files (MDFs). Before using  the MakeModes application, you should take the
time to read the application note 'Creating monitor definition files for the
Risc PC' (available upon request from Acorn Customer Services).

Overview

	The process for creating and saving a monitor definition file can be
        summarised as follows;

	1  Load MakeModes

	2  Click on the MakeModes icon.

	3  Click on the 'Monitor title' menu icon and select the appropriate
           monitor from the list. If your monitor is not included in the
           list, enter the correct values and click on 'Generate'.

	4  Save the generated mode file to disc.


Creating a Monitor definition file

	1  Start MakeModes in a similar way to other RISC OS applications, by
           double-clicking on its application icon. When it has loaded, it
           will install itself on the iconbar.

	2  Click on the MakeModes icon, this will open the 'Generate MDF'
           window.


	3  Choose a monitor by clicking on the 'Monitor title' menu icon and
           selecting the appropriate monitor from the list. If the monitor
           for which you are generating a set of modes is not in the list you
           can enter your own set of values into the writable icons. 

	   If you do wish to use a new set of values, please ensure that the
           following information is correct:

	Monitor type

			The different types are listed below:

		0	50Hz TV Standard colour or monochrome monitor
		1	Multiscan monitor
		2	Hi-Res 64Hz monochrome monitor
		3	VGA-type monitor
		4	Super-VGA-type monitor
		5	LCD (Liquid crystal display)

	Line rate (min and max)

	The minimum and maximum line rates for you monitor are specified in
        Hz. This information can usually be found in your monitor's manual.

	Frame rate (min and max)

		The minimum and maximum frame rates are specified in Hz. This
                information can usually be found in your monitor's manual.

	4  Now click on 'Generate'. If the monitor that you have chosen is
           not recognised by MakeModes, or values that you have entered do
           not make sense e.g. minimum value greater than the maximum value,
           you will get either of the following warnings:
      
           'Do you wish to add this monitor to the monitor list?'
           
           or
           
           'Nonsensical line and/or frame rate values.'

	   If you do wish to add the monitor to MakeModes monitor list, click
           on 'Yes', MakeModes will update its MonList file with the new
           monitor information.

	   If at any stage, you want to remove a monitor from the list, load
           the MonList file (which can be found inside the !MakeModes
           directory) into a text editor such as !Edit and delete the
           appropriate line from the file.

	5  MakeModes will now select all the modes that are suitable for use
           with your chosen type of monitor and open the main display window.

	6  Using the MakeModes main menu (click MENU over the main display
           window) save the generated MDF to disc.



Loading a previously created Monitor definition file

        To load a previously created monitor definition file into MakeModes,
        simply drag the file to the  MakeModes icon on the icon bar. The
        title field of an MDF usually holds the name of the monitor for 
        which the file was created. When MakeModes loads an MDF, it checks
        this name against its own list of  monitors which it knows about. If
        it finds a match, that monitor's details are used to check the
        validity of the modes in the mode file. If a match is not found,
        MakeModes will display a message prompting you  to select an
        appropriate monitor from its stored list. You can do this by clicking
        on the 'Monitor details' menu icon and selecting the monitor from the
        list displayed.


Using the main display window

	The main display window consists of six distinct areas:

				è  File info
				è  Mode Info
				è  Screen RAM
				è  General Info
				è  Mode timings
				è  Timing diagnostics.

	We shall deal with each of these areas in turn.

	File info

	This area displays information specific to the mode definition file
        as a whole.

        See diagram 'fig1'.


		The following DPMS states can be used:

		0	DPMS disabled - screen blank just blanks video
		1	Screen blank enters 'Stand-by' mode
		2	Screen blank enters 'Suspend' mode
		3	Screen blank enters 'Off' mode.


	Mode info

	This area displays information on the currently selected mode. To see
        a list of the modes available, click on the 'Current mode' menu icon
        and select a mode from the list. Although it is possible to give
        screen modes different textual name's e.g. 'DTP Mode', the modes are
        listed in the menu by their resolution and frame rates e.g. 800 x
        600 (60 Hz).

	When you have selected a screen mode from the list, the mode info
        area will be updated accordingly.

        See diagram 'fig2'

	One of the main items that you will want to edit in this window is
        the 'Pixel rate'. By altering the pixel rate, it is possible to
        increase or decrease the Frame rate for a given mode. Please note
        though that increasing the pixel rate will also increase the line
        rate and bandwidth required.

	You can alter the 'sync polarity' using the arrow icons. The possible
        values for the sync polarity are as follows:

       		0	hsync normal, vsync normal
		1	hsync inverted, vsync normal
		2	hsync normal, vsync inverted
		3	hsync inverted, vsync inverted

	When MakeModes creates a new screen mode, the name it uses for that
        screen mode is derived from its resolution and frame rate. You can
        give any screen mode a new name using the 'Name' icon. To do this, 
        simply type a new name into the 'Name' writable icon and press
        Return. If you do not want the mode to appear in the Display
        Manager's mode list, simply ensure that the option icon beside the
        Name icon is not ticked.

	Screen RAM

	When MakeModes is loaded, the amount of VRAM present in the machine
        is shown in the Screen RAM area of the main display window:

	The amount of VRAM available dictates the machine's video bandwidth
        limits. The more VRAM  available, the higher the bandwidth. If a
        screen mode exceeds this bandwidth limit, the Display Manager  will
        refuse to allow the mode to be used. To help prevent this happening,
        MakeModes will inform you if  this limit has been exceeded by turning
        the 'Bandwidth' field (see the General info section later in this 
        document) red.

	If you wish to check that a mode will work on a machine with a
        different amount VRAM, click on one of the VRAM icons in the 'Screen
        RAM' area.

	Clicking on one of the VRAM icons will set the amount of VRAM that
        MakeModes believes is available. Doing this will also update the
        information in the 'General info' area i.e. the 'Memory' and
        'Bandwidth' fields.


	General info

	The General info area of the main display window shows mode
        diagnostic information.

        See diagram 'fig3'.

	The number of bits per pixel (bpp) selected is shown in the 'Bits per
        pixel' icon. This number can be changed by clicking on the Bits per
        pixel menu icon and selecting a new value from the menu. The bpp 
        setting affects the screen memory and bandwidth calculations e.g. an
        800 x 600 screen mode in 8 bpp (256 colours) takes 468K of screen
        memory and has a required bandwidth of 36MB/sec. The same mode  in
        32bpp (16 Million colours) takes 1875K of screen memory and has a
        required bandwidth of 144MB/ sec. If the memory or bandwidth fields
        turn red, the limits have been exceeded. That mode will not work  at
        the selected pixel depth. For more information on pixel depths,
        please refer to the 'Creating mode definition files for the Risc PC'
        application note.

	Mode timings

	The 'Mode timings' area of the main display window is used to alter
        the horizontal and vertical timings  for the selected mode. The
        timings values can be updated by using either the arrow icons or by
        clicking on one of the writable icons and typing the new value.

        See diagram 'fig4'.

        As timing values are altered, MakeModes will recalculate the Pixel,
        Frame and Line rates automatically. If any of the timing values are
        incorrect, MakeModes will show the changes that need to  be made in
        the Timings diagnostics area.

	NOTE: Because the 'Memory' and 'Bandwidth' values are not updated
        automatically, you must click on one of the VRAM icons when changes
        have been made to the Pixel rate or the mode timings.

	When you are happy with your mode timings, you may wish to centre the
        picture on screen. This can be done by increasing or decreasing the
        'porch' and 'border' values. If the 'Keep porch and border' totals 
        icon is ticked MakeModes will retain the overall totals by
        subtracting or adding the same amount to the opposite porch or
        border. e.g. increasing the Left border by 12 will decrease the Right
        border by 12. This option only works when the arrow icons are used to
        alter the timing values.


The iconbar icon

	The iconbar icon responds to the mouse in the following ways:

	è  clicking Select on the icon opens the 'Generate MDF' window if no
           MDFs are currently being edited. If an MDF is being edited,
           clicking Select on the icon will bring the main window to the
           front of the window stack.

	è  clicking Menu on the icon opens the MakeModes menu.

	è  clicking Adjust on the icon has no effect.

	è  Dragging an MDF to the icon will load the MDF if no modefile is
           currently being edited.


The MakeModes icon bar menu

	Info displays the 'Program Info' dialogue box.
	
	VESA selects VESA standard mode timings.

	Quit exits the program. When you quit the application, a warning box
        may be opened if there is any unsaved data.

        	Clicking on Discard will discard any unsaved data.

	        Clicking on Cancel will cancel the request to quit the
                application.

	        Clicking on Save will open the normal RISC OS Save as
                dialogue box allowing you to save your data.


The MakeModes main menu

	Save MDF leads to a 'Save As' dialogue box that will allow you to
        save your MDF to disc or to another  application using the normal
        RISC OS method.

	Generate list leads to a 'Save As' dialogue box. This option will
        allow you to save a list of modes that are  present in the current
        MDF. This list is saved in TAB separated plain text format that can
        be loaded into any text editor or desktop publisher.

	Monitor info leads to the monitor info dialogue box. The Window info
        dialogue box displays information on the currently selected monitor.

	New mode will make a copy of the currently selected mode. If you are
        intending to generate a  completely new mode, it is always a good
        idea to choose an existing mode that most closely matches the mode
        that you wish to create.

	Delete mode will delete the currently selected mode. This operation
        cannot be undone.

	Comments will send any comments that were found in the current MDF to
        a text editor such as !Edit where they can be edited and dragged
        back to the 'Comments' icon in the main display window for inclusion
        in the saved MDF.

Disclaimer

	The software is provided "as is"; Acorn Computers Limited ("Acorn")
        makes no warranty, express or  implied, of the merchantability of
        this software or its fitness for any particular purpose. In no 
        circumstance shall Acorn be liable for any damage, loss of profits,
        or any indirect or consequential loss arising out of the use of this
        software or inability to use this software, even if Acorn has been
        advised of the possibility of such loss.

	Acorn are unable to provide any support for this utility.
