                  !Allocate
                  =========


Contents
--------

        1. Introduction

        2. Running !Allocate

        3. Entering your details

        4. Requesting items

        5. Editing items

        6. Saving a request

        7. Submitting a request to the allocations service

        8. Confidentiality


1. Introduction
---------------

The Allocate application is a general purpose application for submitting
allocation request to the Allocations service.  In the past there have been
three applications that covered the following :-

        !Request -    filetype request
        !Reserve -    name reservations
        !Alloc   -    general allocations (SWI Chunks, Error blocks etc...)

!Allocate combines all the above types of allocations into one application.

An application is used to ensure that all the neccessary information is
submitted for allocations.

See this page for more information on what allocations there are, and what
you get with each type of allocation:

        https://www.riscosopen.org/content/allocate


2. Running !Allocate
--------------------

To run !Allocate, double click on the !Allocate application in the directory
viewer.


3. Entering your details
------------------------

If details have not been entered before, then when !Allocate is run the
details entry window will be opened on the screen (the details window can
also be opened by clicking on 'Set details' from the iconbar menu).  The
details should be entered in full.

The 'Dev No.' field was historically used for Acorn Registered Developers.
It is not used at present and may be left blank.

To set the details you will need to click SELECT on the 'Save Details' icon.
To abort the operation you should click SELECT on the 'Cancel' icon.  When
'Save Details' is clicked !Allocate will save the details in the Choices
directory, so your detail will be set whenever you use the application.

If the details are not entered in full then any request may be rejected.


4. Requesting items
-------------------

To request items you will need to click on the !Allocate icon on the iconbar.
This will open the list window, which will contain the list of items that you
have requested (to start off the word 'none' appears, indicating that nothing
has been requested).

At the top of the list window there is a button bar that is used to open the
different item windows.  Clicking on a specific button will open the entry
window for that particular item.

Each item window has the following icons :-

  Add -         Clicking on the 'add' icon will add the requested item to the
                list of requested items.  A textual description will appear
                in the list once 'add' has been clicked on.  You will not be
                able to add the item if any of the compulsory fields have not
                been filled in.

  Cancel -      Clicking on the 'Cancel' icon will abort the individual item
                request.

  Help -        Each item has its own online help file, which describes the
                particular item and how to fill in the fields.  Clicking on
                the 'help' icon will open the help window for the item.


5. Editing items
----------------

Double clicking with SELECT on any item in the list of allocations will allow
that item to be edited.  Subequent clicking on the 'add' icon will update
that particular item.

Items can be selected by clicking ADJUST on any item.  The selected items can
then be deleted by using the Selection menu.


6. Saving items
---------------

Once you have completed your request you will need to save it and send it to
the allocations service.  Open the menu over the main allocations window
(middle mouse click) and follow "Save request" to save the request file
somewhere.


7. Submitting a request to the allocations service
--------------------------------------------------

Once you have completed a request you should attach it to an email to the
following address:

        allocate@riscosopen.org

Submissions, need to be clearly labelled, indicating the senders name,
company name (if relevant) and an overview of the contents.

Please note that you should not send the whole application to this address
when submitting a request - only the request data file is needed.


8. Confidentiality
------------------

The allocations service is run for the benefit of all developers by an
independent third party. Information submitted will not be distributed to
other developers and will not be provided on demand to any other parties.
The service is intended to provide a centralised means of allocating
resources such that duplicated uses do not occur. Since information about
components under development may be treated as commercially sensitive, no
disclosure will be made to any other parties.

In submitting your request you are agreeing to the allocations service
handling your personal information soley for the purposes of completing the
contract to fulfil the allocation as described above.

If you are happy for your allocations to be published in the public RISC OS
repository, please state this in your allocation request email.

If you wish for your personal information to be deleted from a previous
allocation, please send a request to do so along with the original request
details in an email. The allocation will remain valid, but no longer
associated with the requestor.
