
Build process improvements:
  !MkRam,fd7 added to enable RAM builds of all Toolbox modules
  MakeFile tidied up and support for RAM build added
Module now uses Toolbox memory allocation instead of calling OS_Module.

Writable gadgets now generate "No more gadgets" errors rather than
"Invalid component ID" when trying to place the caret into a faded
writable icon and there are no available alternative linked writables.

WindowHasBeenHidden events are now generated consistently for
transiently shown windows. Instead of relying upon a single static
variable indicating which, if any, window is showing transiently, a
shown/hidden counter is kept and pending HasBeenHidden events are
flushed when message_MENUS_CLOSED arrives.  This solves the problems
observed with several Toolbox applications which variously did not
appear to get a HasBeenHidden event for a closed transient or got
duplicate messages (which confused applications wishing to show a
shared window object transiently, wait for it to close, and then open
it again (eg. a dbox asking the user to make a choice).

Second new version for the day - sorry - a second bug thought to lie
elsewhere turned out to be in the Window module too.  Also related to
transient Window objects, this fix stops random pointer dereferencing
when a message_MENUS_DELETED is generated by the Wimp and Window
doesn't know about the window object in its ShowingAsMenu global.

Fixed setpointer - setting the pointer back to default incorrectly set the shape to pointer 2, rather than 1.

PAN-01317 fixed: Wimp dying when Window deletes transiently shown objects

Event ordering for transient submenu objects fixed (SNB-U002).
Module now uses srccommit to maintain its version number

Alteration made to handling of SWI Window_PlotGadget so that errors
generated by external gadget modules are detected correctly and the
bounding box of the gadget isn't drawn in addition to the gadget.
Change does not affect gadget modules' API to Window.  Fail-safe
behaviour of drawing the bounding box if Window is not sure whether the
plot call succeeded is retained.

Radio button gadgets didn't cope with being given empty label field,
hence attempted various pieces of memory copying through null pointers
and memory allocation/deallocation of zero lengths blocks.  Its
handling of its text buffer has been altered to bring it into line with
the way all the other built-in gadgets handle their label buffers -
which works.
