
Read_Me file for Generic printers.
----------------------------------

These printer definition files are not associated with any
particular brand of printer and will not make use of any of
your printer's enhanced capabilities, though they may prove
useful in diagnosis of problems.

"Text"

The "Text" printer definition file is a very basic
raw text printer definition file. It assumes
virtually nothing - it uses form-feed (12)
carriage-return (13) and line-feed (10) and the
normal ASCII printable characters from 32 to 127.
There are text highlights. ISO Latin 1
international character mappings are supplied, but
every character is simply mapped to the closest
available normal ASCII character.

You would only use this file when attaching an
unusual printer for the purposes of doing text
printing only eg. daisy wheel printers, golf ball
printers, line printers etc.

The graphics resolution in this file is a dummy as
all DP printers must have at least one graphics
resolution. (It is in fact an MX-80 Type II
resolution).

"Top_Left"

The "Printers.Top_Left" printout file can be used
to calibrate the position of output on Epson and
IBM compatible dot matrix printers. To do this,
you should first ensure your printer is in its
default state eg. switch it off and switch it back
on again, and feed paper into it if necessary.
Then send the Top_Left file directly to the
printer. The easiest way to do this is to set
!Printers up for printing to your printer, and
then drag the "Top_Left" file icon onto the icon
for your printer on the icon bar. Alternatively,
you can use the command line; the command "*Copy
Top_Left Printer:" will send the file to the
printer, assuming you are in the Printers
directory and the print destination has already
been set up correctly (eg. by !Printers).

On the paper there should be a small vertical and
horizontal line (like an inverted "L") close to
the top left corner of the paper. Start !PrintEdit
and drag the printer definition file you wish to
use into the !PrintEdit window. Measure the
distance from the left hand edge of the paper to
the left hand edge of the inverted "L" mark (do not
measure to the middle of the mark). The distance
you have just measured is the "Paper X offset" for
your printer, so you should enter it into the
"Paper X offset:" field in the !PrintEdit window.
Now measure the distance from the top of the paper
to the top edge of the inverted "L" mark (again do
not measure to the middle of the mark). This
distance is the "Paper Y offset" for your printer,
and should also be entered in the !PrintEdit
window. Now click the MENU button in the !PrintEdit
window (avoiding the "Graphics modes:" icons or you
will get the wrong menu), and use the "Save" option
to save your customised printer definition file. It
is recommended that you do not overwrite your
master printer definition file. Either make sure
you have backups, or save your new file somewhere
else.

Now quit !Printers, restart it, and load in your
new printer definition file using the "Printer
control" window. Printed output on your printer
should now appear in the correct position.